(GH-95) Add installing and updating tools docs (#113)
puppetlabs/prm: docs/md/content/usage/tool_installation.md

---
title: "Installing Tools"

> description: "Learn how to install tools to PRM."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Guidance for installing tools to use with PRM"
```

category: narrative
tags:
  - tools
  - usage

>   - install tool
>   - update tool
>   - list tools

Reviewer: I'm not sure how kindly the systems will treat tags with spaces. Maybe best to use dashes?

```suggestion
  - install-tool
  - update-tool
  - list-tools
```

weight: 10
---

> This page contains a guide on how to install tools to PRM. Tools will be installed to a default location unless a different directory is specified using the flag `--toolpath {alt_location}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how you can install tools to execute with PRM.
By default, tools are installed to the `tools` folder alongside PRM unless the  `toolpath` flag is specified with an alternate install location.
```

### Local archive

Tool packages can be installed locally using the `prm install` command.

> For example, this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```bash
prm install ~/my-tool-1.2.3.tar.gz
```

> Will install the tool contained in `my-tool-1.2.3.tar.gz` to the default tool location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That command will install the tool contained in `my-tool-1.2.3.tar.gz` to the default location.
```

### Remote archive

Tool packages stored remotely can be automatically downloaded and extracted with `prm install` so long as you know the URL to where the archive is.

> For example, this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```bash
prm install https://packages.mycompany.com/prm/my-tool-1.2.3.tar.gz
```

> Will attempt to download the PRM tool from the specified url and then afterward install it like any other locally available PRM tool archive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will attempt to download the PRM tool from the specified url and then install it like any other locally available PRM tool archive.
```

### Remote git repository

**Git** must be installed for this feature to work. The git repository must contain only one tool and must be structured with the `prm-config.yml` file and the `content` directory in the root directory of the repository.

> For example, this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```bash
prm install --git-uri https://github.com/myorg/myawesometool
```

> This will attempt to clone the PRM tool from the git repository at the specified URI and install to the default tool location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will attempt to clone the PRM tool from the git repository at the specified URI and then install it to the default tool location.
```

### Updating tools

> Currently, tools can't be updated but rather newer versions of the tool can be installed. Also, currently only the latest version
> of a selected tool will execute, the ability to select the version of the tool to be executed will be included in a future PRM version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there is no `update` command, newer versions of tools can be installed like any other tool package.
Currently, only the latest version of a selected tool is executable; the ability to select an older version of the tool to execute will be added in the future.
```

### List installed tools

Installed tools can be listed by running the command `prm exec --list`, displayed in the following format:

```
       DISPLAYNAME      |   AUTHOR   |        NAME        |                       PROJECT URL                       | VERSION
------------------------+------------+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+----------
  Embedded Puppet (EPP) | puppetlabs | epp                | https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_template_epp.html | 0.1.0
  metadata-json-lint    | puppetlabs | metadata-json-lint | https://github.com/voxpupuli/metadata-json-lint         | 0.1.0

> ```

Reviewer: Does this actually display in the `prm explain tool_installation` command? In my experience on windows, tables currently break 😭 

It might be safer to merely call out that it lists tools in table format with each tool's display name, author, short name, project url, and version.
